Task 1. Timeline Mapping

Timeline of Artificial Intelligence from 1950s-2020s
1951- The first neural net machine is designed that could lean by two students named as Marvin Minsky and Dean Edmonds studing mathematics and physics respectively.
1950s- programs for chess game where emerged on computers.
1956- The Dartmouth Conference was held and the term Artificial Intelligence first coined.It provided a base and developed the groundwork for upcomig reseach and questions about nature and AI.
1957- The attempts wehe started ti mimic human problem- solving protocols via 'heuistic search'.
1964-66 - The first chatbot was created name as ELIZA by Joseph Weizenbaum.
1966-72 - Shakey the Robot was frist introduced in 1966 by SRI international.It combined awareness of environment,mobility,problem solving.
1970s- THE first AI winter- There was mainly five problems which were- too high expectations which were cannot be achieved at that time, limited computer size,lack of time ,lack of computer resources and framin.
1980s- The idea of knowledge is power is come to propestive by the expert systems.Knowledge base systems were introduced to proform various tasks.
1982- Japan invested huge funding to create fifty generation computers which could converse, translate and reason.
1985- Most of the powerfull companies were started investing in AI.Lisp machines were used to run AI.
1990s-The second AI winter.The shut down of expert systems were started and completed in between 1988-1992.Reasons for this season of the AI where hight expectations,if any problem slighty goes out of the rules coded for AI then it fails to give any kind of outcome.
       But inspired by Fukushima's Neocognitron multilayer neural networks algorithms started to learn adn now Neural network could solve the ROX problem.
       The term AI was droped during 90s due to its bad reputation and the terms like machine learning and statistical interference gained popularity.Ample work in the field of machine learning has done at that time .
1997- THe deep blue moment. IMB's deep blue defeted a world class champion with its alpha-beta  pruning of possobilities and strong hardware.
2000s- The term iRobots where came to exitance and early artificially intelligent robots where heavy and required to put nearby a big computer system to operate and where around 2 metres in height.
       In the end of 2000s,computers where started to come on a small size which can even fit in a pocket know as phones.Now they also have a abiliy to acess internet connection.Voice assistants like Siri, Alexa and Google', assistant were rised.
2003- The idea of autonomous cars came and its main focus was to establish a stong network which can run efficiently in both urban and rural areas.
2010s-The research in AI exploded agian due to the avability of huge amount of Data and stronger chips ever seen before, and deep learning.
2012- The image net moment. The power of deep learning was shown by the task of classify millions of  labbelled images into different catagories.
2016- The Alpha go moment. Alpha go used deep learning and reinforcement learning with probabilistic tree search. The move 37 used by alpha go was much creative that even people at first started to think it was a mistake and a wrong move.
2020s- Generative AI emerged and many AI agents where come into existance.
2017- Google researchers started to publish. Transformers where came to existance.
2022- ChatGPT is released.when it passed the turing test and work on the bases prompts.It become the first platform to gain 1million subscriber faster than any other platform ever existed.

The event which has the most significant impact is the time when GPUs were introduced which helped the people to do complex tasks. Gaming GPUs are used to run AI systems to enhance proformance.The avalibility of the data also plays a singnificant role to explode AI. Internet provides the material to trian AI models adn in last deep learning also introduced new algorithms to enhance the performance .
